dasung promised that their paper like
you would be the world's first eink
monitor that was actually usable we felt
usable was a pretty strong word there's
supposed to be text up here you're
terrifying here but never mind that they
said we have a new monitor that will be
more powerful more sexy and more
colorful than you could possibly imagine
okay wait though colored eink now
they've got my attention and apparently
yours as well here it is
okay that's pretty cool boasting 3K
resolution the 25.3 inch paperlike color
boasts full color ultra speed refresh
rate special xcolor filter technology a
multicolored front light and even a
stylish backl but is the grass really
greener now that the grass is really
green well you guys saw the title so you
know it's going to be a little
complicated so let's dive into the Tech
that makes this thing tick and see how
it handles everything from the use case
that it was designed for to ones that
are well o o o funnier like this funny
segue to our sponsor War Thunder you got
to admit it would be pretty cool to fly
a jet or drive a tank well War Thunder
gameplay is about as close as you can
get from the comfort of Home play for
free at the link below E in the kleenex
of electrooptic displays works by susp
spending charged pigment particles in a
capsule filled with viscous liquid the
capsule gets placed between two
transparent electrodes that can send a
charge either attracting the particles
to one side or attracting them to the
other side of the capsule if you zoom
way in and you slow things down a bit
you can actually see the individual
particles floating to the surface of the
capsule then you just take a bunch of
those capsules put them in an array and
you got an eink display but how dides
color work well okay one thing you could
do is you could add colored pigment to
your capsules but now hold on a second
if all we can have is a positive or A
negative charge well how do we make sure
that it's the colored particles that
rise to the surface of the capsule well
we can change the size of the particle
if we add slightly larger particles to
the mix then we can take advantage of
the momentum of larger particles so we
can hold the positive charge just a bit
longer and those larger particles will
accelerate and smash their way to the
top pushing the smaller particles out of
the way but wait a second hold the
charge longer you mean even longer than
a black and white e in
display yeah like two frames per minute
longer so clearly desung had to go a
different route let's take a closer look
using this handy dandy USB microscope we
can zoom way in on this Monitor and see
exactly what's going on here would you
look look at that just like the monitor
or TV that you're watching this on right
now it uses a color filter on top of the
E Ink layer but if we look closely
things get pretty weird what is this sub
pixel layout okay we need red green and
blue in order to make white right so
here's a triangular pixel with my red
green and my blue that I need to make
white right and you know here's another
one but the problem is that in order to
make another pixel that's right in line
with this one I've got to go way over
here I'm missing an entire row oh wait
okay no I see it we can have a triangle
here and then we can have a triangle
here and one here and one here and
they're kind of offset and if we look
closely at the surface of the display
it's got almost like these denim lines
running through it so that makes sense
our subpixel layout is these nested
triangles is what I would tell myself
good job lonus if it wasn't for the fact
that these are not sub pixels every
pixel on this
3200x 1800 display is either red green
or blue to show you how this pans out in
the real world we made this test image
that is a 3200 by 18800 checkerboard
pattern now every other pixel should be
black and every other pixel should
be a color I mean if you look at the
display it's kind of gray so in a sense
this red green and blue are making
whitish but how do they advertise this
thing as 3200 by 1800 well my friends
because even though not every one of our
pixels can impact Hue every one of our
pixels does impact the brightness and
saturation of that square and the
overall sharpness which is why we need
to stop using the word resolution to
describe pixel count but that's a
lecture for another day let's play with
this thing let's try zooming in to see
how this thing is going to handle larger
checkerboard oh that is cool you can
actually watch the transitions you can
see the particles as they
slowly darken or brighten let's see what
happens when I move my cursor across it
oh hey oh hey oh how you doing there
buddy there's the little thingies on the
hand icon as you can probably imagine
though on a display that can only sort
of produce white gray introduces some
unique challenges let's go ahead and
have a look at the no signal screen oh
wow those are not supposed to look like
that are they so it's trash then well
not quite so far everything we've done
has been weird test patterns what about
real world usage well the first thing I
notice about it is that uh we still have
the same issue as last time where you're
going to see the ghost of whatever it is
you were doing last on top of any new
content unless you clear the display and
do a slow refresh okay drawing in green
it's like kind of greenish I can see
every single Pixel with the naked eye
that is not something I'm used to this
is an LGH HDR test video that you guys
can go watch on your own if you want to
have some idea of what it's supposed to
look like to be fair this is like the
worst case scenario for this monitor the
ghosting on black is way worse than when
it's ghosting on white it's not for
watching video but how does it compare
to the non-color one do we have the old
oh we have the old one it's right
here you know what I think the ghosting
is better on the new one oh yeah I mean
that's something at least let's see how
they hold up in video though so we'll do
the classic clear and then I'm going to
go ahead and start our giant movie CD
laser disc before we do that we should
make sure these are in the same mode
these have five different speeds that
they can refresh at we got uh fast mhm
uh fast plus fast plus plus fast plus
plus plus uh-huh and fast plus Plus+
plus right okay video mode with both of
them fast plus plus plus
plus I don't know how much I I need the
color I was about to say I really
appreciate having theor color well I
mean like look here like you just have
these like weird specks of green like
nothing's really filled in it's all
sporadic and I feel like it looks a lot
smoother with the gray yeah but that
shot didn't have a lot of color in it so
you weren't really getting that benefit
at least this plant is green like look
look here oh at least I can appreciate
the you know the glinting light off of
this laser disc what even is that but
did you notice that the front light is
on
no I mean does that
matter wait this one doesn't have the
light on at
all okay compared to our black and white
display the color filter ends up wasting
a ton of Light which defeats the purpose
kind of cuz the point of e in right is
it's supposed to be more like the
experience of reading off of a piece of
paper with natural ambient light and on
the original black and white one we can
totally do that the brightness of this
to my eye is actually comparable to this
one with the front light activated and
we found that so much light was lost
that we almost always preferred to have
the front light on you guys can see just
how dim it is with it powered off but
maybe there's a use case where it's
still worth the tradeoff let's take a
look at word processing and document
creation oh this is even great cuz we
have highlights and stuff in here yeah
like that's ooh really bad oh goodness
it's really not sharp even with a clear
that looks like ass what if we try
changing the mode okay sure I mean I
should put this one in text mode too
then text mode is very very very
aggressive with oh you want it black
like look at this it's blue let's go up
one level oh no that's black now the
sharpness is okay now but I would never
edit text at this size no like I'd be
working probably more like this I think
I would rather have my gray lighting
over here than this highlighting over
here with this low resolution text let's
say I was willing to accept those
compromises though how usable is this
let's take this document from roasting
SB and Creator gaming setups and try and
make some edits to it I just hold on I'm
just trying to fix the formatting
here okay what is happening right now
that's the page break there's a page
break I can't even see it here you can
totally see it on this one yeah but to
be fair we are in text mode so text mode
look no no no no if text mode is not
what you need for editing a text
document then they no there you go I
just changed the contrast but okay the
rest of it you didn't finagle enough I
can barely even read this now you should
have finagled more well that's okay now
you can press your page break and then
you can go like this and change your
mode so that's back to be better you
know there also this is supposed to be
yellow mhm you wanted me to try to game
on this thing oh yeah we're going to
game on this thing but let's you know
what let's do what color e Inc does best
let's look at some Comics yes I could
see that being a legitimate use case for
this uh that's not that great lus what I
tell you about finagling I'm working on
the I'm working on it oh a graphic mode
not bad we can get the other one this
one's also messed up now so I'm going to
come around and give this its best shot
if I'm reading text sharpness is
everything yep and that's way sharper
way way sharper on the black and white
maybe a newspaper comic strip isn't the
best comparison cuz I was like what am I
really losing in black and white here
but that's cuz it was smartly designed
to not always be printed in color but
that's most Comics here's where I think
it actually is probably the best case
scenario for it is this older Watchman
comic and I think it does look really
great it benefits from the incredible
coloring of the Watchman series and it
does get that dot printed cheap dot
printed feeling really well it Nails
this but when you're not looking at
cheap dot printed stuff um falls apart
pretty fast it's just disappointing
especially compared to like I don't know
any other display in its price bracket
but let's game in a minute first I want
to talk about the folks who might be
considering a display like this in spite
of all the obvious downsides and those
are people who are suffering from
digital eye strain AKA computer vision
syndrome now I won't dispute the
perceived improved comfort of using an
eink display but it should be noted that
there is still a lack of scientific
evidence to demonstrate that blue light
or any light emitted from a display is
bad for your eyes and while some of it
might be down to poor translation desung
makes a lot of broad medical claims that
they probably haven't tested so if
you're someone who suffers from digital
ey strain rather than just taking what
they're saying at face value try
following the 202020 rule and make a
point of remembering to Blink if you
have trouble with that keep some saline
eye drops at your desk in order to
improve your hydration of course don't
take advice about your eyes from either
monitor manufacturers or YouTubers and
if you have a persistent problem make
sure you talk to a professional all
right enough boring medical stuff let's
game Super Meat Boy challenge dasung
black and white versus dasung color
versus Alienware 2 40 HZ OLED and you
may be wondering hey what's up with that
that seems unfair it's the same price
well actually mine's $400
cheaper are those the speakers built
into this monitor yeah they are not very
good and this is
Sammy if you guys lose this and you
blame your Hardware that's uh that's
kind of embarrassing I've never played
this one moment please I'd like to tweak
my monitor a little bit yeah Sammy you
can also change your settings if you'd
like oh look at that got to get that
fine tuning okay so we're just going to
go we're going to go to the first level
go so you have to get you have to save
the
lady okay
done nice and then just Mash a to get
the next level uh you can wall jump by
like slamming against things oh I can't
even see
myself there a wall here are you on the
slow are you on the what
is oh my
God how far are we expected to go here I
think someone set a timer for a minute
wait wait wait oh well that wasn't very
good I didn't I can't see anything it's
all gray uh how do I change the refresh
rate again M plus yeah I yeah I think so
okay you want fast plus plus dude I
can't I can't see for oh hold on okay I
turn my contrast down this is definitely
better where am I where are you L is
don't worry about it okay I'm going this
is going way more better now that I can
actually see any of what I'm doing I
need beat lonus be embarrassing right no
you're not dude you're not going to beat
me no no no no No 3 2 1 all
right I'm at 112 I'm at 1 N I don't know
what I'm at
uh you almost were there 111 111 so I
was at 110 so clearly that's proof that
color does improve your gaming
performance yeah not just that but once
I was able to tune it The Limited
ghosting compared to the first gen one
is definitely better like this is very
usable compared to what poor Sammy was
dealing with over there with that said
I'm not getting much of the benefit of
the color of it at this point no wow now
that I look at that it looks so much
better of course no one is buying this
thing for gaming and if you are the sort
of person who has a use case that can
benefit from it you know who you are say
for example if what you do is review
documentation all day for a living
something like this could be worth the
investment and investment it will be the
color paperlike is worth about
$1650 which somehow is less than dung's
equivalent non color Inc monitor but
with the trade-offs that are inherent to
the technology I can see how they would
view these two displays as equal if not
the same I guess the question now is you
know color E Ink it's definitely a thing
so why hasn't Amazon released a color
e-reader yet with the Kindle brand
recognition that they have they charge a
fortune for a color version but if I had
to guess I'd say it probably comes down
to the lack of brightness and the poor
performance in both black and white and
especially grayscale so for the time
being you'll have to turn to competitors
like Kobo who will have Linked In the
video description along with dung if
you're the sort of person to whom this
is appealing and our sponsor War Thunder
if you're going to watch explosions you
may as well do it from the comfort of
your couch War Thunder is a free-to-play
PVP with a focus on realistic vehicles
and immersive PVP combat every single
one of their vehicles is modeled after
their real world counterparts which
means you can get behind the wheel of
some of the most famous tanks planes and
ships to have ever been made now of
locking yourself in a metal box and
going head to-head it sounds a little
intimidating don't worry there are game
modes for the more casual newcomers as
well and with features like their damage
x-ray view you can quickly get better at
the game it lets you see exactly how
you've done damage to enemy vehicles to
help could play to their weaknesses and
your strengths in the next match plus
it's available on PC Mac PlayStation and
Xbox so join over 70 million other
players from all around the globe for
free right now by clicking our Link in
the description if you guys enjoyed this
video check out our video on what might
be the superior unlit display the rlcd
monitor by sunvision display it's well
it's kind of bad it's better than either
of these but it's really cool